---
up:
  - "[[Digestive System]]"
tags:
  - lecture
status:
---
## Intended Learning Outcomes

## Notes



SPEAKER 0
This material is made available to you by or on behalf of the University of Melbourne under section 113P of the Copyright Act 1968. It may be subject to copyright. For more information, visit the University Copyright website.

SPEAKER 1
Welcome to this next lecture in the digestive system subject in which I'll be talking to you about teeth and tooth development. It's the first of 3 lectures that I'll be giving you in this subject. The next lecture will continue the discussion of dentition by comparing different domestic species, and we'll also take a look at how dentition is used to age animals. And then in the lecture after that, we'll explore the anatomy of the oral cavity further and also enter the next part of the digestive tract, which is the pharynx. These lectures are supported by a number of prat classes, including the mouth and teeth wet lab, the sheep head dissection class, and the head and neck skeleton practical class that you'll be doing with Helen shortly. So the intended learning outcomes for this lecture include that at the end of this lecture, students should be able to describe the general structure of a tooth and explain how the different tissues contribute to tooth function. Be able to compare the development and the general structure of brachydont and hypsodont teeth, and to relate the different embryonic cell types to the dental structures that they form. So I'm going to start by explaining some directional terms for you because I'll be using these quite a bit, and it's important that you understand what I mean. Don't be too worried. You will be hearing these quite a lot, and, um, Helen, for example, will be taking you through these again, probably during the course of this week. So these are terms that you'll become quite familiar with over your time learning anatomy. So we start with Describing the animal, and the animals are quadruped. So some of the directional terms are a little bit different to what you might have heard if you've done any human anatomy. So when we're talking about the animal and the, uh, back of the animal, that is referred to as the dorsal aspect or dorsum. It is along the back line here, and the underside of the animal is ventral along the belly here. The tail end of the animal is caudal, and the head end is cranial, so the direction towards the head is cranial. Once we're actually within the head itself, the term we use for the foremost part of the head is rostral, so towards the nose here. But we still have this dorsal term, the dorsal aspect of the head, ventral for the underside of the head here. Medial refers to facing towards the midline of the animal, if it had been cut along the median plane, which we can see here, and lateral refers to the side of the animal. So we can see over here, this is the lateral aspect of the animal, and here we have the median plane, so the medial aspect would be towards the median plane. And we can see once again in these diagrams here, this is the lateral aspect of this dog, the dorsal aspect, looking down onto the back, the ventral aspect, looking down onto the belly and underside, cranial towards the head, and the caudal aspect towards the tail here. Sometimes we refer to the sagittal plane, the sagittal plane is parallel to the median plane, but away from the midline. Now the teeth are located in the upper and lower jaws. The upper jaw comprises this bone, which is the maxilla, and this more rostral bone here, which is the incisive bone. The lower jaw is the mandible. And the teeth are embedded in bone that's referred to as alveola bone. And the alveola bone contains the tooth sockets, because an alveolus is a socket. So here we can see a radiograph showing the tooth roots. Embedded in the alveolar bone. So when we were describing individual teeth, we can describe different surfaces of each tooth, and it's important to be able to do that, because you might have to, for example, explain where a particular lesion on a tooth is located. So the tooth surface includes the vestibular surface. Now the vestibule is the space between the lips and cheeks and the teeth. So this is the vestibular space in here. Now, the vestibular surface will be called labial if the tooth is facing towards the lips. Or the buckle surface if that tooth surface is facing towards the cheek. The occlusal surface is the masticatory surface. mastication is chewing. So this is the surface that comes into contact with the tooth of the opposite jaw. The lingual surface is the surface that faces the tongue, and you can use that term for either teeth that are either in the upper or lower arcade. We can also refer to this surface as the palatine surface when referring to teeth in the upper arcade. Teeth also have these interdental or interp proximal surfaces, and these are the surfaces that face adjacent teeth in the same row. So the term mesal surface might be used, and that is the surface facing towards the midline, so the midline would be here, and the distal surface is facing away from the midline. These terms, medial and distal are used for teeth in an arc that are seen in carnivores. We'll look later on at the tee teeth in herbivores, and you'll see that they're pretty straight, so they don't, um, they're not aligned in a curved shape. So these terms, mesal and distal, are not really used in, um, the cheek teeth of herbivores. In these situations, mesal is the equivalent of the rostrually facing interdental surface. And Disal is the equivalent of the quarterly facing interdental surface. We'll now take a look at the two essential tooth types that are seen. Brachidont teeth, and brayont means short crowned teeth, and this is the crown here. And hypsodont teeth, hypsodont means long crowned or high crowned teeth. Which we can see in this diagram here. Brachidont teeth are the sole tooth type in carnivores, and this type of tooth has a limited period of growth and eruption. Hypsodont teeth are found in herbivores, and they can also form part of the dentition in omnivores, and these are teeth adapted for high rates of wear that occur with abrasive diets. These teeth have a prolonged growth and eruption period. And what you see is an anatomical crown. Yeah. And a root. The root though develops sometime after eruption commences, and this can be many years after the tooth first begins to erupt. Some hypsodont teeth never form roots. For example, the incisors of rabbits and rodents, and we'll have a look at that in the prat class. These continue to grow throughout life and never form roots. So these teeth are called ardicular hypsodont. Ardicula means no roots. The other term for them is hipsylodont teeth. So what we can see here on this diagram are the locations of the different types of issues that form the tooth. Here we can see the enamel, and the enamel is present only on the crown of the tooth. Here again is the enamel. We can see the dentin that forms the bulk of the tooth here. And here We can see cement or cementum. Which in braydont teeth is only located on the root of the tooth, whereas in hypsodont teeth, it may also cover the crown of the tooth. We can see within the dentin is the pulp cavity. And the tooth is embedded in bone. The alveola bone, and on the surface of that bone is the gingiva or gum. So the main parts of the tooth are the crown, and that's the part of the tooth that's covered by enamel, or at least in the case of hypsodont teeth, has an enamel covering the underlying dentin, because here we can see we might have cementum on the outer surface of the enamel. In braydont teeth, this comprises the entire tooth above the neck. In hypsodont teeth, the anatomical crown or body comprises the clinical crown, yeah. And that's the part that has erupted, and the reserve crown here, which is the part still beneath the gum line. The neck is this slight constriction at the cemento enamel junction, which is covered by the free gingiva in the normal healthy tooth. It's present only in braydont teeth. We don't see a neck in the hypsodont tooth. The root is located within and anchored to the alveolus or to socket, and it has no enamel. It has a foramen at its apical end, and this is the opening through which vessels and nerves enter to supply the tooth. This image is showing the skull of a horse with the lateral bone of the maxilla and mandible removed to expose the cheek teeth. Here we can see the different parts of the body. The clinical crown. It's somewhat stained because this animal has been eating plants and the plant pigments have stained the cementum on the surface of the tooth. The reserve crown beneath the gum line has remained unstained. This animal is a relatively old animal, so therefore we can see that the roots have formed in this animal, we can see this narrow part at this level here. We'll now explore the components of the tooth in more detail, starting with the enamel. The enamel is located on the crown only, and it's synthesised by cells called amyoblasts, and these cells are found only on the surface while the tooth is below the gum line. After eruption, these cells are lost. That means that enamel cannot be repaired after the tooth has erupted. It's the hardest biological material in the body and comprises 96 to 98% mineral content. And this is chiefly hydroxyappatite, which is a calcium phosphate complex that is the inorganic constituent of bones and teeth. The remaining tissue comprises proteins and mucopolysaccharides. The crystal structure of enamel differs from that of dentin and cementum. Also, as we've already indicated, there are no cells that remain within enamel. The next component is dentin, which is also mineralized. It's produced by odontoblasts, and this tissue forms the majority of the hard material of the tooth. There are different types of dentin. I've listed the three major types which are primary, secondary and tertiary, and these differ in their crystalline structure and the degree of mineralization. The primary dentin is the outermost layer of dentin, and that's produced by odontoblasts while they're located closest to the enamel layer during tooth formation. Secondary dentin is laid down more slowly and results in the narrowing of the pulp cavity with age. In brachiodont teeth, it's produced after root formation is complete. In horse teeth, secondary dentin prevents pulp exposure at the occlusal surface. That arises from normal wear of the tooth. Tertiary dentin is produced in response to injury or damage. It also may be laid down in the horse tooth to protect the tip of the pulp cavity from exposure. The secondary dentin is less mineralized than primary, so it appears more opaque. It also absorbs plant pigments and becomes stained. And what this means is that we can identify the appearance of the dental star, which I'll talk to you about in the next lecture that we see in the occlusal surface of horses. Tertiary denting may also appear to be dark. So this staining of the secondary dentin does depend on the orientation of the tubules. So the dark pigmentation of the star is seen most, um, evenly in young horses, and they gradually develop a central white spot as the orientation of the, um, tubules in the secondary dentin changes with age. One question that we should address is whether dentin is sensitive, because it does become exposed in the teeth of the herbivores. Now the Adontoblasts that produced the dentin sit on the outer surface of the pulp cavity. As they move away, They leave behind long processes that extend into the dentin. These remain within the dentinal tubules, so the cell body continues to move away to remain within the pulp cavity on the surface of the developing dentin. But because it has processes within the dentin, injury to the dentin can result in transmission of pain via these processes to the cold cavity. The dentin at the occlusal surface in the horse is not sensitive, and that's why it's possible to trim teeth. And this is thought to be due to calcification of processes at this level. Needs to be remembered though that significant trimming can result in pain. So dentin is a mineralized extracellular matrix, similar to bone, so it has approximately 70% mineral content and 30% organic components, including collagen fibres and mucopolysaccharides. Remember that collagen is the main structural protein of connective tissue. So for example, tendons, bones, skin, etc. and the main producer of collagen are fibroblasts, and we'll talk about that a bit more later. Like enamel, there are no cells that remain embedded in the dentin, only their processes. As I indicated before, the amyla blasts don't remain within the enamel, and nor do their processes. They are completely lost upon eruption. The third mineralized component of the tooth itself is cement or cementum, and this tissue is similar in structure to bone. It's produced by cementoblasts, and in this case, some of these cells will remain embedded within the cementum. It surrounds and protects the dentine of the root. And anchors the periodontal ligament. In hypsodont teeth as we've already indicated, it may also contribute to the bulk and strength of the crown. It's not as readily degraded as bone, for example, during orthodontic work, but it has a mineralized extracellular matrix similar to bone, so it's approximately 60 to 65% mineral content. It will also become stained by plant pigments similar to secondary and sometimes tertiary dentin. As we've seen in the previous image of the horse teeth, that cementum that is exposed above the gum line in herbivores may become stained. The dental pulp in the centre of the tooth. Comprises connective tissue with abundant blood vessels. There are nerves, some of which are sensory, and others that regulate blood vessel diameter. The vessels and nerves enter through the apical foramen. The superior and inferior alveolar nerves are the nerve supply, and the arteries are similarly and veins are similarly named, and these veins, arteries and nerves pass through the jaws. So in this case, we can use the term superior and inferior because the orientation of the jaws is the same as the orientation of the jaws in humans. So we also see this with some eye structures as well, that the term superior and inferior are appropriate to use. So the superior alveolar nerves come from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve. And these run through the maxilla. The inferior alveolar nerves come from the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve, and these run through the mandible. The trigeminal nerve is the cranial nerve that supplies somatic sensory innervation to most of the structures of the head. Somatic sensation means sensation of pain, heat, touch, temperature, pressure, rather than referring to special senses such as taste or vision. The alveolus is the socket here, and this is alveolar bone. And we can see between the cementum and the alveolar bone is the periodontal ligament that anchors the tooth in the socket. So here we'll take a closer look at the alveolar bone. The alveolar process is the part of the jaw that contains the sockets. So this is alveolar process, this part here. And we can see the alveolar bone proper, which is the lining of the socket, so this layer of bone here, we can see this white line. Yeah. And this alveolar bone proper is also called the laminadura. As I've indicated in this diagram here. The socket follows the shape of the root and the root can be branched, as you can see with these teeth here. And the periodontal ligament is embedded in the laminadura or the alveolar bone proper. So here on this diagram we can see the alveolar process of the mandible. This canus or spongy bone. Here, within which are embedded, the sockets or alveoli alveoli in plural. The periodontal ligament is the ligament that suspends the tooth and anchors the tooth in the alveolus. It allows some movement of the tooth in the socket and has some shock absorbing function to accommodate compression during chewing. So the periodontal ligament is comprised of collagen fibre bundles, and these are called Sharppi's fibres, and they connect the laminadura to the cementum. These fibres are produced by fibroblasts, and the cells within this space between the tooth and the alveolar bone, include the fibroblasts that produce these fibres, cementoblasts, undifferentiated mesenchymal or connective tissue cells. Epithelial and bone cells. So these fibres are the extracellular component of this region, within which there are a lot of cells as well. The gingera is the gum. And this covers the alveolar bone and surrounds the teeth. It comprises the free gingiva here. And that forms the collar around the crown and is separated from the tooth. By a space here called the Gingerville sulcus. The attached gingiva extends apically from the free gingiva. To merge with the oral mucosa, so if you can imagine the cheek here. The inner part of the cheek. At the mucogingival margin, so this is the junction between the tough keratinized gingival mucosa and the soft oral mucosa. And the gingiva is bound to the underlying bone by collagen fibres. The interdental papilla is the gingival peak. Between adjacent teeth. That concludes discussion of the structure of the tooth and tooth associated dental structures. I'll now move on in the next section to talk about tooth development.
