---
tags:
  - dailyNote
up:
  - "[[Quest Log]]"
week: "[[2024-W25]]"
---
## Today's Main Quest
Do some pixel art and touch the piano
## Quest Log
[Summary:: woke up late but still did some pixel art and piano]
[Grateful:: for aseprite being free! ]
[Memory:: 1-bit means 2 colours and 8-bit is like a gradient]
[Life-learning:: theres always another way to do things even if it’s not written down]

[Symptoms:: #ringingears #tired]
[Medication:: #dexamphetamine 25mg]
[Emotions:: #sad #anxious #worried #content #motivated #driven ]
## Letter Stew
I'm feeling sad because I didn't make friends properly in vet school. I feel like everywhere I go I cut ties because I'm not good at maintaining friends. When I go back to vet school I need to try harder to make friends so I have people to go on placement with otherwise if I don't know how to drive I won't be able to get anywhere I am scared when I am away I'll be homesick and what if I'm not strong enough and I waste another year? 

I made friends in vet school - while i don't talk to her anymore she let me follow her around to an extent. I wasn't trying to make friends and I was unmasked. If I was trying harder maybe I would have made more friends. I don't need to make friends I don't want to make, but it could be helpful with the placement stuff. I can try to leearn to drive by driving once a week starting next week, even if it is just for a little bit. I have the driving lesson soon and I will be on track to getting my license. If I am not strong enough to continue vet, it's okau. I will have my diploma. It's not like I am wasting this year - I needed to take time off because I was suicidal. If I had kept going with vet, I would be dead. I needed to take a break, and it's not fair on myself to say I'm wasting this year. I am trying to get better and every day I feel a little better, stronger and more motivated. This year I will work on developing interpersonal skills so I feel less anxious about making friends in vet school. It will be okay, and there is no rush to do anything.
## Activity Log
### Projects worked on
```dataview
table 
FROM #project and [[]]
```

### Notes:
```dataview
TABLE file.tags as "Note Type", file.cday
from ""
WHERE contains(dateformat(file.cday, "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm"), this.file.name)
SORT file.name
```
