---
up:
  - "[[2024-W24]]"
---
Daily Journal
----
## Journaling

### Reflections:
[Grateful:: my psychologist [[Claire Cox]] because she helps me navigate emotions ]
[Memory:: lalala]
[Life-learning:: Failure is required to grow]
[Introspection:: I am learning that perfection is not needed]
[Symptoms:: #sorethroat]
[Medication:: #concerta 18mg, #clomipramine 2.5mg ]

- [Summary:: Learnt about gamification, quantification, became overwhelmed because of too much information]
### Today's thoughts/insights
- I am so overwhelemed and i am going to die because there is too much going on and i can't organise anythign and what if i write something down thats importantbut i cant do anything aout it becauuse it is lost because ididnt link it correctly and then i lose notes that are important because i couldn't find the best way to organise it?
- Firstly, it is okay to be overwhelemed
- I am not going to die because there is too much going on
- There is a lot going on, but I don't need to be able to organise everything
- Right not, all I need to do is open the note for diploma, then open the website.
- It's going to be okay because not everything needs to be perfectly organised
- All you need to be able to do is use the search function and you will be able to find whatever you need even if its not in the right folder or doesn't have the right tags or links
- not everything needs to be immediately accessible for it to be usefull
- there is no perfect structure because everyone's brain works differently
- It is okay to write things down that are incorrect or skewed by personal bias because your thoughts are your thoughts and even if they aren't true, they are still yours 
- It won't get lost if you just stay in one note. Just stay here and it will be okay because  everything is in one place, all you need to do is search for it. It becomes harder if you keep starting from the start.
- I understand that I want to go off a template, but it was really overwhelming and I ended up feeling really anxious
- The pros of going off a template for a vault is taht there is a predetermined structure that uses obsidian to its best capabilities
- the cons is that you end up seraching for the best vault and your information is spread across everything because you just cant decide
- Right now, I am feeling hungry, so I will go eat. I need to have a drink of water.
-  When i come back, I will open the axcelerate program and start writing even though the concepts may not be all together. it doesn't need to be perfect. you can find the links later
- it will be okay. right now, all you need to do is listen to your body. I will put on some kurtis conner, go pee, make some noodles, watch some tv, then at 4pm I will start working
- the day is not over yet and it is okay to not min max life. its going to be okay. not everything needs to be perfect. 
5:16
- I feel bad because... I IOJSDOAIJDOIAJSODIJASOIJDOIA SDFLKJSKFLKJSLDKJLFKKFSMLLDSKM
[emotions:: it]


[emotions:: 7:15pm #stressed #overwhelmed #overworked #overpaid #freakingout]

6:59
- i looked at the time and it looks like i have been enroled in the course for almost a month and i haven't made the progress i want to make
- i started to think that i won't get this done in time, and began to get worried.
- lets consider the logic
- I have been enrolled in the course since may 24, but i didnt gain access until the folowing monday - may 27. 
- It has been 19 days since may 27 
- I am almost done with the second modyle
- I was aiming to get done in with one module every week
- So, 19-14=5 
- I am 5 days behind what i want to be and i haven't finished the module yet
- My train of thought was that i won't get this done, and if i got stressed at a goal i seet for myself i won't be able to dea with vet school
- IN this statement i catastrophized, had predictive thinking, jumping to conclusions, discounting the positive, magnification, black and white thinking
- Predictive thinking - I can't know for sure how I will feel in the future. I could enjoy vet school =, I might not. It is too far in the future for me to decided right now that i am not ready. I will try to focus on the current situation and how i can control what is in the moment rather than fixating on what could be, as this is not something i can control.
- Catastrophized - I am only 5 days behind what I thought I was - Knowing me, I can easily catch up, and it is normal for me to leave things to the last minute - it is a trait that I am ok with - I know that I work well under pressure, which means it is normal for me to be behind a schedule. Being behind a schedule doesn't mean I am behind forever - In this moment, i am behind but in the long run i am not. I know how i work, and i know i will catch up. it will be okay because this is how i work.
- Jumping to conclusions - i hadn't considered the data in its entirety and came to a factually incorrect conclusion that i have been enrolled in the course for 4 weeks. Next time when I have a thought like this, I could stop what i'm doing, write down my thoughts and cognitive distortions and evaluate what is happening logically.
- Magnification - as above
- black and white thinking - one situation is not directly applicable to another - just because I was stressed last time, it does not mean i will be stressed this time. Since leaving vet school, there are many things i have achieved. Instead, I can try to acknowledge my achievements. these include
1. trying dexamphetamine with an open mind
2. trying clomipramine
3. trying concerta
4. researching a diary app and making a decision
5. getting a subscription to the food delivery service that makes it easier for me to live
6. learning how to use obsidian
7. getting a scholarship to an online course
8. making a decision to get a diploma of counselling
9. learning that spending money is okay
10. starting to get organised again with habitica
11. watched movies with my friends
12. went to dungeons and dragons
13. completed a whole module in a week
14. almost completed another module in 12 days whilst doing all of this - completing the module in 2-3 sittings (almost)
15. learning about gamification
16. learning about self quantification
17. learning about spoons and asd
I have made so much progress. It might seem like  little things but they add up. I am levelling up with small amounts of XP, just as I used to scrounge for coins and the coins added up to give me free transport, I am scrounging XP to level up passively. 
it's going to be okay. I am capable of this and I cannot predict the future. I am learning and failing, both of which are essential for growth. it wll be okay

[Emotions:: #anxious #overwhelmed #logical #proud]



----
## Activities 
### Notes:
```dataview
TABLE file.tags as "Note Type", file.cday
from ""
WHERE contains(dateformat(file.cday, "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm"), this.file.name)
SORT file.name
```

---


 Here is the summary of our discussion, categorized based on the CBT-defined categories:

| Negative Belief                    | Emotion                      | Category       | Reframed Thought                                          |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| "I am a failure"                     | Shame, Frustration           | Labeling and Mislabeling    | I have made mistakes, but it doesn't define my worth entirely |
| "This always happens to me"         | Frustration, Helplessness   | Overgeneralization        | This situation is temporary; I have the power to make changes  |
| "I cannot do this at all"           | Anxiety, Fear                      | All-or-Nothing Thinking    | I may struggle at times, but with effort and perseverance, I can succeed |

Remember: You are more than the thoughts and emotions you experience. Reframing your thoughts in a realistic and positive way can help you cope better with difficulties and foster personal growth. It's not easy, but it is achievable. Keep working at it! 🚀🌱