---
tags:
  - dailyNote
up:
  - "[[Quest Log]]"
week:
---
## Today's Main Quest
## Quest Log
[Summary:: ]
[Grateful:: ]
[Memory:: ]
[Life-learning:: ]

[Symptoms:: ]
[Medication:: ]
[Emotions:: ]
## Letter Stew

Over the past 437 days, I have spent
$417.30 on 26 orders containing a total of 125 items from the infamous app, Temu.

Temu is an online shopping platform that offers nearly anything you can think of for extremely low prices that literally don't make sense. They say it's cheap because they source directly from manufacturers and have less overhead costs since its based online, but we all know that the reason everything is so affordable it's because the quality of the products is questionable and the allegations of forced labour. 

There's many arguments for and against purchasing products from online brands like Temu, aliexpress, and shein, such as how they make resources available for lower income groups, though at the expense of an unseen third party. I'm not going to be going into the social ethics of online shopping as I feel like there is so much more information that I want to explore in more detail surrounding fast fashion and overconsumption of affordable products before I share anything of value that you haven't heard before. I'm also not going to be going into whether or not it's a scam or data mining you - what I'm going to explore right now is what kinds of things I purchased from Temu over this past year, how they've fared in usefulness in the long term, and my overall experience using it as an online shopping app.

THE METHOD

What I did was go through all of my orders since downloading the app in April 2023, listing out each item, its category, the cost, when it was bought, and its short and long term usefulness. I narrowed it down to 6 categories - clothing (including accessories, sweaters, earrings), cosmetics, like false eyelashes, makeup brushes and this dupe milk jelly tint because no way i was spending $44 at sephora on a little wobbly stick, gifts for family and friends, homewares and household items like this dinosaur sandwich cutter, cotton buds and electric toothbrush heads, hobby items like paint brushes, yarn and crochet hooks, and finally decorations.

I put these all in a google sheet then I rated the perceived short term usefulness on a scale of 0 to 3, where 0 means the item was immediately obsolete or broken, 1 means i used the item much less than intended, 2 means slightly less than intended, and 3 means I used it as much as I intended. 

I calculated the days since purchasing it using this formula, then rated the usefulness again from the perspective of now and how much I use the items. Then, I created another formula to determine the change in usefulness over time, where the higher the value, the more useless it became and the lower the value, the less not useless it became, or rather I continued to use the item as much as i thought I would. After all of this, I compared my data manually and this is what I found.

THE RESULTS

Of the 141 items I purchased, to my surprise most of them came under the category household items - I was expecting it to be clothing and cosmetics, but I guess when you add them together it's pretty close to the same number. Of those 43 household items I purchased for $157.67, 28 of them, which is around 65%, I still use to this day, or if they were a consumable item like cotton buds, have been consumed. That means, for every dino sandwich i made, i threw away like a third of it. The main reasons I stopped using the items were that they were poor quality like this horrible blender, or unnecessary like this heart shaped egg thing that the egg sticks to and you just cannot get the egg out and why do you need the egg in the shape of a heart anyway? My average long term use for the items was slightly above the halfway point between 0 and 3, meaning most of the items I used were used somewhere between less than intended and much less than intended. Thats not great, but it's also not the worst.

The category with the lowest average long term use by far was the cosmetics. And guess why? It smells like chemicals! Why did I ever think putting something probably carcinogenic on my face was a good idea, let alone on my lips? The average long term use of a cosmetic product from temu for me worked out to be 1.2 - meaning i used it much less than I intended to. Moral of the story? don't buy cosmetics that you don't know what's in them!

Following on from this we have our next category, clothing. I thought this would be the main culprit what with my ever changing fashion sense, but it turns out I actually spent much less money on clothes than I thought - $51.94 for 16 items, in fact. Of these 16 items however, I have stopped wearing almost half of them, the main reasons being I had a change in fashion, the fabric felt funny, or i just had too many of the things already and never found the need to use them. This is definitely something I need to work on for myself, because if I keep this pattern up, it's basically like I'm throwing a shirt away after I wear it twice. I don't really buy clothes that often, most of the things in my closet were either gifted to me or thrifted because I get really anxious about spending my money if it's not for something I really need, like food or rent or eyeliner, other than the 16 fashion items I bought in the past year, plus the other 109 mystery temu products that came into my possession.

Next up I want to look at the gifts section! Unfortunately I don't know how useful most of the items were for the people who I gave them to, because outside of Christmas, I don't really have a reason to talk to anyone. So, I rated the usefulness according to how useful they were to me. Very useful! I gave the gifts as intended, except for this cardigan which was too big for my mum so she gave it back to me. In retrospect I don't really want to give anymore temu gifts to anyone ever, the people I give gifts to are people I love, and I want to put more thought into my gift giving in the future. Except for my old boss who groomed me - he deserved that shitty temu mug fuck you!

My second last category is hobby items! When it comes to hobbies I am a goblin for collecting items, as such, this was the next highest category after the gifts category that I spent my money on  with a total of 18 items for $57.86. Since my intended use of the items I buy like jump rings, UV resin and 10 balls of yarn aren't things I use day to day, I had already anticipated use of these items would be quite infrequent, thus the change in use over time is on the lower side and the percent still used, or intention to use in this case is pretty high. Before buying craft things on Temu I would purchase from Aliexpress which is probably no better, and in person shops like Riot, Lincraft and Spotlight. Buying craft items from Temu for me seems to be the way to go since I don't require very high quality yarn or paint brushes since I jump from hobby to hobby as quick as I go from depressed to on top of the world, so I rank this, S tier category. 

The last category is decoration, and honestly there's not really much to be said about this - it's literally just chickens and kuchi kopi, and they are doing their job perfectly. 100% still used.

CONCLUSION 

Overall, I use 75% of the items I purchased from Temu in the past year, which means I have wasted a grand total of... about $103.49! Provided all the countless hours of entertainment I have spent scrolling through Temu finding the best deals, feeding the stupid fish and growing wheats, I rank my financial competence a good D+. Better luck next time. 

IMPROVEMENTS

To improve on this, I'm going to make some goals for the next 437 days of my existence to balance out my mistakes.
1. Before buying something, imagine what it will be like in 1 years time? Will I still want it as much as I do now? Will it still hold up as well as I want it to, or is it worth investing in a higher quality product that will last longer and taste less carcinogenic?
2. Spend no more than 75% of what I spent this past year on non-essential items
3. Find an alternate source of dopamine other than finding the cheapest price on Temu - spend more time actually using the things I bought to make cool gifts for my friends to show how much they mean to me.

I know these goals aren't revolutionary, but they're realistic for me, and something I can achieve with the resources I have. In the end, we're all going to die, and the least I can do is try to be an ok person and not ruin the world. 

Over and out.




## Activity Log
### Projects worked on:
```dataview
table 
FROM #project and [[]]
```

### Modified Notes:
```dataview
TABLE file.tags as "Note Type", file.cday
from "" and !#project
WHERE contains(dateformat(file.mday, "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm"), this.file.name) 
SORT file.name
```

### Created Notes:
```dataview
TABLE file.tags as "Note Type", file.cday
from ""
WHERE contains(dateformat(file.cday, "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm"), this.file.name)
SORT file.name
```