---
area: 
section: 
course:
  - "[[Animals in Extensive Production Systems 1|APS1]]"
tags:
  - unit
Status: 🌱
---
## Related Lectures
```dataview
table status FROM #lecture and [[]]
```

## Related Concepts
```dataview
LIST FROM #concept and [[]]
```

# Intended Learning Outcomes

**Describe major Australian and international extensive animal production industries (beef cattle, dairy cattle, sheep, camelids and goats), the common production systems within them and the major determinants of profitability, productivity and sustainability**   

✅gcILOa : Describe the major components of agricultural production systems; inputs and outputs and how management decisions impact these.
[[Inputs in Extensive Animal Production Systems]]
[[2.4 - Profitability and Productivity]]


✅ gcILOb: Detail common providers of inputs and output services in extensive livestock systems and the role of veterinarians
[[Veterinarians in Extensive Industries]]
[[General Industry Structure]]

✅ gcILOc: How is animal health and welfare defined in livestock systems in Australian and around the world
[[Worldwide Import and Export of Live Animals]]

✅ gcILOd: Compare different extensive livestock production systems in Australia with respect to size, profitability, productivity and sustainability - what concepts are relevant?
[[Production System Value]]
[[Worldwide Beef Trade]]
[[Worldwide Small Ruminant Meat Trade]]

✅ gcILOe: What role do research, development and extension bodies have in extensive animal production, what is the overall structure of these bodies and what roles do veterinarians fulfill in them - what concepts are relevant?
~
[[Research and Development Corporations]]
[[Co-Operative Research Centres]]
[[Veterinarians in Extensive Industries]]
[[Universities based research]]

✅ gcILOf: Compare and contrast Australian production systems to international production systems for extensive livestock species - what concepts are relevant?
~
[[1.2 - Worldwide size of livestock Population]]
[[Comparing Finances across enterprises]]
[[Interaction between different enterprises]]
[[International Trade]]

**Describe the basic principles of breeding, management, nutrition, animal welfare and disease control as they relate to extensive animal production systems and specify where veterinary input may be important**     

✅ gcILOg : How do extensive animal production systems replace animals that are culled or die and what factors influence changes in this rate?
~
[[self replacing]]
[[Reproduction in Extensive Production Systems]]
[[Comparing Finances across enterprises]]
[[Environment]]

✅ gcILOh : Describe the importance of gestation and lactation on matching feed supply and demand on a property.
~
[[2.4 - Profitability and Productivity]]
[[Gestation Period]]
[[Lactation]]
[[Feed in Extensive Production Systems]]

✅ gcILOi: What ratio of male and female young are required to retain for breeding and why in extensive livestock systems?
~
0.03% bulls

✅ gcILOj : What is the range of ages/weights when different extensive livestock species are mated and how is this chosen?
~
[[Age at joining]]

✅ gcILOk : How does seasonality impact breeding in different species and breeds?
~
[[Seasonal Breeders]]

✅ gcILOl : How many times are extensive livestock mated per year and how many young are expected per mating?
~
Depends on [[Reproduction in Extensive Production Systems]]
100% cows for 90% offspring


✅ gcILOm : What major factors impact reproductive success in different livestock enterprises and how may a veterinary examination improve survival?
[[Measuring Reproductive Rate]]
Caesarean,[[Pregnancy Testing]]


✅ gcILOn : What primary factor/s drive the decision on time of joining (natural or artificial) and therefore timing of parturition?
[[Annual Management Programs]]

✅ gcILOo : Compare and contrast why differing farm management systems sell livestock at varying ages and weights.
[[Annual Management Programs]]

✅ gcILOp : Compare at what age and weight livestock are weaned from their dams and/or source of milk and what factor/s influence this decision?
[[Weaning]]

✅ gcILOq : Describe the influence of pasture quality and quantity on management decision making and how this varies with geography/climate.
~
[[Pasture Curve]]

gcILOr : Detail the decision making process for commencement of supplementary feeding of livestock and relevant feedstuffs/requirements
[[Feed in Extensive Production Systems]]

✅ gcILOs : Draft a calendar of management for various livestock enterprises based on environmental variables such as rainfall/temperature and/or pasture growth curves.
[[Annual Management Programs]]

✅ gcILOt : Detail likely anthelmintic and vaccination protocols for livestock enterprises as part of annual management.
[[Strategic Animal Health]]

gcILOu : Detail the process of fibre collection and reasons for timing of this in different livestock enterprises.
~
[[Summer stubble]] 
[[Hay]]

🔍 gcILOv : Utilise stocking rate equations to assess appropriate stocking rate of properties in different geographic/climatic regions
[[Stocking Rate]]

**Describe the ethical and legal frameworks that govern the major extensive livestock industries in Australia in order to understand the role of the various players, including veterinarians, in assuring the safe, ethical and legal production of food and fibre products**

✅ gcILOw : What are the main legal frameworks that govern extensive livestock industries in Australia and how does this differ between states and regions?
[[Biosecurity in Extensive Animal Production Systems]]

✅ gcILOx : How are veterinary chemicals regulated and by whom and what role do veterinarians play in this?
[[Regulation of Veterinary Chemicals]]

✅ gcILOy : Define the terms withholding period and export slaughter interval for veterinary drugs and where this information may be obtained.
~
Minimum time between harvesting animal products (WHP) for domestic human consumption, or slaughtering for international trade after administering a veterinary chemical
Obtain from pubcris
[[Withholding Period|WHP]]
[[Export Slaughter Interval|ESI]]

gcILOz : How is animal welfare legislation formulated and what are the key principles in livestock farming systems?
## Related Lectures
```dataview
table status FROM #lecture and [[]]
```

## Related Concepts
```dataview
LIST FROM #concept and [[]]
```