---
area: 
section: 
course:
  - "[[Animals in Extensive Production Systems 1|APS1]]"
tags:
  - unit
---
## ILO1:

Describe major Australian and international extensive beef production industries, the common production systems and the major determinants of profitability, productivity and sustainability   

bILOa: Be able to compare and contrast types of Australian beef production enterprises with international examples.

bILOb: Explain the important drivers of productivity and profitability in beef cattle production systems.

bILOc: Outline the importance of sustainability for beef cattle enterprises and integration with productivity and profitability.

## ILO2:

Describe the basic principles of breeding, management, nutrition, animal welfare and disease control as they relate to extensive beef production systems and specify where veterinary input may be important    

bILOd: Develop a breeding plan for a beef property in a specific environment to maximise productivity.

bILOe: Describe the role that artificial insemination and embryo transfer play in the beef industry and design a plan for their use.

bILOf: Compare and contrast the pre breeding requirements for cows and bulls in beef production

bILOg: Plan a standard management calendar for a range of beef enterprises in a particular environment

bILOh: Choose relevant immunotherapy and chemotherapy options for a beef production enterprise justifying timing of use

bILOi: Explain the role of pregnancy detection in the beef industry, its timing in the reproductive cycle and the role of the veterinarian in the process

bILOj: Describe the major parasites of beef production systems and the range of methods to reduce their impact

bILOk: Compare methods of beef cattle identification and explain the reasons for current Australian cattle identification requirements.

bILOl: Compare methods of desexing in cattle and describe optimal timing for this procedure and why it should be performed

bILOm: Describe how changes in beef cattle condition and weight can be monitored and utilised on-farm.

bILOn: Select appropriate diets for beef cattle at various stages of production including estimating pasture requirements for a herd

bILOo: Choose appropriate supplements for beef cattle to maintain condition/production

bILOp: What regulations cover beef cattle production in Australia?

bILOq: What roles may a veterinarian play in managing production and disease control in an Australian beef herd?

## ILO3:

Describe the ethical and legal frameworks that govern the extensive beef industry in Australia in order to understand the role of the various players, including veterinarians, in assuring the safe, ethical and legal production of beef products   

bILOr: List the basic requirements of the Standards and Guidelines for beef cattle production in Australia.

bILOs: What is the role of the veterinarian in applying rules from S& G and POCTA.

bILOt: What rules/regulations concern the use of pharmaceuticals in livestock production?
## Related Lectures
```dataview
table status FROM #lecture and [[]]
```

## Related Concepts
```dataview
LIST FROM #concept and [[]]
```