---
area: 
section: 
course:
  - "[[Animals in Extensive Production Systems 1|APS1]]"
tags:
  - unit
---
## ILO1:

Describe major Australian and international dairy production industries, the common production systems and the major determinants of profitability, productivity and sustainability   

diLOa: Be able to compare and contrast typical Australian dairy production enterprises with international examples.

diLOb: Explain the important drivers of productivity and profitability in dairy production systems.

diLOc: Outline the importance of sustainability for dairy enterprises and integration with productivity and profitability.

## ILO2:

Describe the basic principles of breeding, management, nutrition, animal welfare and disease control as they relate to dairy production systems and specify where veterinary input may be important    

diLOd: Develop breeding plans for dairy farms with different calving systems to maximise productivity.

diLOe: Describe the role that artificial insemination and embryo transfer play in the dairy industry and design a plan for their use.

diLOf: Compare and contrast the pre breeding requirements for cows and bulls in dairy production.

diLOg: Plan a standard management calendar for dairy enterprises with different calving systems.

diLOh: Choose relevant vaccination and anthelmintic options for a dairy production enterprise justifying timing of use.

diLOi: Explain the role of pregnancy detection in the dairy industry, its timing in the reproductive cycle and the role of the veterinarian in the process.

diLOj: What are the impacts of the major groups of parasites on dairy production systems and the range of methods to reduce their impact.

diLOk: Compare methods of dairy cattle identification and explain the reasons for current Australian cattle identification requirements.

diLOl: Describe how changes in dairy cattle condition and weight can be monitored and utilised on-farm.

diLOm: Select appropriate diets for dairy cattle at various stages of production including estimating pasture requirements for a herd.

diLOn: Choose appropriate supplements for dairy cattle to maintain condition/production.

diLOo: What regulations cover dairy cattle production in Australia?

diLOp: What roles may a veterinarian play in managing production and disease control in an Australian dairy herd?

## ILO3:

Describe the ethical and legal frameworks that govern the extensive dairy industry in Australia in order to understand the role of the various players, including veterinarians, in assuring the safe, ethical and legal production of dairy products   

diLOr: List the basic requirements of the Standards and Guidelines for dairy cattle production in Australia.

diLOs: What is the role of the veterinarian in applying rules from S&G and POCTA.

diLOt: What rules/regulations concern the use of pharmaceuticals in livestock production?
## Related Lectures
```dataview
table status FROM #lecture and [[]]
```

## Related Concepts
```dataview
LIST FROM #concept and [[]]
```