---
area: 
section: 
course:
  - "[[Animals in Extensive Production Systems 1|APS1]]"
tags:
  - unit
---
## ILO1:

Describe major Australian and international extensive animal production industries (sheep, camelids, deer and goats), the common production systems within them and the major determinants of profitability, productivity and sustainability   

srILOa: Be able to compare and contrast typical Australian small ruminant, camelid and deer production enterprises with international examples.

srILOb: Explain the important drivers of productivity and profitability in small ruminant, camelid and deer production systems.

srILOc: Outline the importance of sustainability for small ruminant, camelid and deer enterprises and its integration with productivity and profitability.

## ILO2:

Describe the basic principles of breeding, management, nutrition, animal welfare and disease control as they relate to extensive animal production systems and specify where veterinary input may be important    

srILOd: Develop breeding plans for small ruminant, camelid and deer farms with different management systems to maximise productivity.

srILOe: Describe the role that artificial insemination and embryo transfer play in the small ruminant, camelid and deer industry.

srILOf: Compare and contrast the pre-breeding management in small ruminant, camelid and deer production for both females and males.

srILOg: Plan a standard management calendar for small ruminant, camelid and deer enterprises

srILOh: Describe vaccination and anthelmintic options for a small ruminant, camelid and deer production enterprise justifying timing of use.

srILOi: Explain the role of pregnancy detection in the small ruminant, camelid and deer industries, its timing in the reproductive cycle and the role of the veterinarian in the process.

srILOj: Describe the major parasite classes of small ruminant, camelid and deer production systems and the range of methods to reduce their impact.

srILOk: Compare methods of small ruminant, camelid and deer identification and explain the reasons for current Australian small ruminant, camelid and deer identification requirements.

srILOl: Describe how changes in small ruminant, camelid and deer condition and weight can be monitored and utilised on-farm.

srILOm: Select appropriate diets for small ruminant, camelid and deer at various stages of production including estimating pasture requirements for group of animals.

srILOn: Choose appropriate supplements for small ruminant, camelid and deer to maintain condition/production.

srILOp: What roles may a veterinarian play in managing production and disease control in an Australian small ruminant, camelid and deer production system?

srILOq: Compare fibre collection methods for small ruminants and camelids.

srILOr: What requirements are there for velveting deer and what is the role of the veterinarian within this process?

srILOs: Describe management practices that have a welfare impact on animals and methods of reducing negative impact

## ILO3:

Describe the ethical and legal frameworks that govern the major extensive livestock industries in Australia in order to understand the role of the various players, including veterinarians, in assuring the safe, ethical and legal production of food and fibre products   

srILOr: Describe the basic welfare requirements for small ruminant, camelid and deer production in Australia.

srILOs: What is the role of the veterinarian in applying rules from S&G and POCTA.

srILOt: What rules/regulations concern the use of pharmaceuticals in livestock production?

srILOo: What regulations cover small ruminant, camelid and deer production in Australia?
## Related Lectures
```dataview
table status FROM #lecture and [[]]
```

## Related Concepts
```dataview
LIST FROM #concept and [[]]
```